# PiCar - Raspberry Pi Autonomous Car

This project is orientated around creating a simple model to represent some of the key functions in an autonomous vehicle, using affordable and easily available components.

## Setup
You will need access to a computer and a Raspberry Pi to run this project.

PC

       sudo apt-get install python-opencv pygame numpy 

Raspberry Pi

        sudo apt-get update
        sudo apt-get -y install python3-rpi.gpio
        sudo apt-get install python3-picamera

## Hardware
To assemble the PiCar you will need the following components:

* Raspberry Pi 3 Model B:  £32
* 4WD Car Chassis Kit: £20
* Pi Camera V2.1: £24
* HCSR04 Ultrasonic: £1.80
* L298N H Bridge Motor Driver: £3.45
* 12V/5V Battery pack: £36.99
* Various parts (wires, brackets): £5

Total cost: £123.23
(However for most interested in this project you will already have many of the above components)

## Startup
Now you have all the dependencies installed and the PiCar build, clone this repo and navigate to the 'final' folder. From here pick which module you wish to run and launch the stream.py on your computer. Finally edit the client.py file with your computers IP address and then launch this updated file on your Pi!


## EPQ
This repository is part of an A-Level EPQ Project completed by Guy Turner 2017/2018. All work is my own unless specifically declared otherwise.
This project uses publicly available libraries and modules written for Python. A full list of each module used is included at the top of each script.

The HAAR-Cascade file used in this project was generated by myself, however if you intend to replicate this project I would suggest creating a new cascade based on your stop sign/object
